Northern Ireland's post-primary schools have been given guidance on how to deliver classes on sex education.
They must teach about access to abortion and prevention of early pregnancy, under new regulations introduced last year.
The Department of Education (DoE) held a public consultation which would influence under what circumstances a pupil might be removed.
A total of 13,461 responses were received with over 25,000 comments.
Before the new policy, each school in Northern Ireland has been required to teach relationships and sex education (RSE) but the curriculum has been a matter for each school to decide, based on their school ethos.
That approach has previously been criticised by some experts, who have said it leads to "different and inconsistent learning experiences" for pupils.
However, the move by NI Secretary Chris Heaton-Harris means post-primaries would have to teach pupils about issues such as how to prevent a pregnancy, the legal right to an abortion in Northern Ireland and how relevant services may be accessed.
The guidance states a pupil in years eight, nine, 10 and 11 may be excused if a parent, who considers the education against their wishes, makes a written request to a school.
If a parent makes a request for their child in Year 12 to be removed from part or specified elements of the programme, it must be confirmed the pupil does not object to being excused.
The guidance also points to the social and emotional effects of being excluded, as well as the likelihood of a child hearing their peers' version of what was taught and discussed second-hand.
However it is noted that any detrimental effects may be mitigated if the parents propose delivering the specific education to their child at home instead. 
The guidance further notes that the change to the curriculum made by the Northern Ireland secretary does not prevent teachers and pupils from discussing and commenting on the moral, ethical or spiritual issues which may arise in relation to matters such as abortion.
A Department of Education spokesperson said the guidance follows the wording in the regulations brought by Mr Heaton-Harris, and the ability to excuse pupils from receiving the education required is not the same as the rest of the UK.
BBC News NI understands that in England, a principal can override the wishes of the parent if they deem it necessary.
The Department of Education has also released a number of the comments made in the consultation. 
One parent said: "It is vital that pupils are taught accurate and appropriate information regarding these topics.
"I believe that pupils absolutely should know how to prevent early pregnancy and access abortions."
A school leader commented: "Children are and should be just that - children. 
"When we consider that they cannot vote until a certain age then why should being taught about such issues be any different?"
The highest number of responses were from parents at 47.16%, followed by members of the public at 32.48%.
The Education Authority will provide training for teachers and board of governors in respect of the new requirements. CCEA will also release documents to help address sensitive issues with pupils.
There is also guidance on external providers who would come in to help with RSE. 
Teachers will have to co-design and participate in those lessons. The guidance states external providers shouldn't substitute teaching but should enhance or supplement it. 
The school must also be satisfied with the quality of what is being brought into the classroom.
Dr Graham Gault, director of the National Association of Head Teachers (NAHT) in Northern Ireland, said the department has engaged "very well" with unions when constructing the guidance.
But he added that the "proof would be in the pudding" in how easy and workable it is for parents and young people to decide not to access the lessons.
"I imagine there will be things that will need to be improved in the guidance over time and the department, I hope, will remain open to looking at that as time goes on," he told BBC Radio Ulster's Evening Extra programme.
The Northern Ireland Secretary said he recognised that some parents may either wish to teach their child about sex education, or make alternative arrangements based on religion or age.
"The regulations therefore placed a duty on the Department of Education to ensure that a pupil may be withdrawn from education on sexual and reproductive health and rights or elements of that education, at the request of a parent," a statement said.
After Thursday's mass walk-out, some public sector staff are still taking part in industrial action.
Schools, healthcare, and transport will all be affected by Thursday's industrial action.
Some schools will shut for eight days of strikes with parents saying children are "being forgotten".
The tool for practitioners will allow young people to "live free from sexual abuse", says government.
Malone Integrated College is using grant money to provide free meals to all pupils until mid-term.
Copyright 2024 BBC. All rights reserved.  The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Beta Terms By using the Beta Site, you agree that such use is at your own risk and you know that the Beta Site may include known or unknown bugs or errors, that we have no obligation to make this Beta Site available with or without charge for any period of time, nor to make it available at all, and that nothing in these Beta Terms or your use of the Beta Site creates any employment relationship between you and us. The Beta Site is provided on an “as is” and “as available” basis and we make no warranty to you of any kind, express or implied.
In case of conflict between these Beta Terms and the BBC Terms of Use these Beta Terms shall prevail.
Healthcare workers are being told not to report women to the police if they believe their patients may have illegally ended their own pregnancy.
The Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists (RCOG) says "deeply traumatised" women are being prosecuted following abortions.
By law, patients' data must not be disclosed without their consent.
The new guidance follows a recent rise in police investigations into abortions.
The RCOG says these cases are rare, however, and it is encouraging women to seek medical help if needed.
NHS staff are allowed to breach confidentiality rules to give information to the police about possible crimes, but only if it is in the "public interest". The RCOG says it is "never" in the public interest to report women who have abortions, and that they must be safeguarded.
In the first official guidance issued of its kind, a healthcare worker must "justify" any disclosure of patient data or "face potential fitness to practice proceedings".
The organisation says it is "concerned" by the rising number of police investigations following abortions and pregnancy loss, and the effect this might have on "especially vulnerable" patients.
Dr Jonathan Lord, who co-chairs the RCOG abortion taskforce and the British Society of Abortion Care Providers told BBC News: "A law that was originally designed to protect a woman is now being used against her.
"We have witnessed life-changing harm to women and their wider families as a direct result of NHS staff reporting women suspected of crimes, and we just don't think that would happen in other areas of healthcare.
"We deal with the most vulnerable groups who may be concerned about turning to regulated healthcare at all, and we need them to trust us".
Dr Lord said he believed some NHS staff had shared information with police because they were "ignorant" about confidentiality regulations.
In 2022, the number of suspected illegal abortions logged with police forces in England and Wales rose to 29, from 16 in 2018.
Abortions are legal in England if they are performed by a registered medical practitioner and take place within the first 24 weeks of pregnancy. Otherwise, it is illegal to deliberately end a pregnancy and, under the 1861 Offences Against the Person Act, it carries a maximum punishment of life imprisonment.
Last year, six women were prosecuted in England on suspicion of breaking abortion law, according to the RCOG, compared with just three in the previous 20 years. It is believed their information may have been handed to police by medical staff.
Dr Lord said many women who had been investigated had in fact had late miscarriages, or had been later in their pregnancy than they had realised when they had had terminations.
Recent prosecutions include that of Carla Foster, who was jailed for procuring her own abortion in 2020, and Bethany Cox from Teesside, who was cleared of the same charge earlier this month.
The Crown Prosecution Service (CPS) said cases such as these were very rare: "We carefully consider the personal circumstances of those who end their pregnancy outside the legal parameters and address these as sensitively as possible.
"Our prosecutors have a duty to ensure that laws set by Parliament are properly considered and applied when making difficult charging decisions."
The RCOG says it supports an amendment to the Criminal Justice Bill, which would have the effect of protecting women from prosecution for having abortions.
A government spokesperson told the BBC: "It is important that all women have access to safe and legal abortions on the NHS...
"We understand this is an extremely sensitive issue and we recognise the strongly held views on all sides of the discussion. 
"That is why, by longstanding convention, any change to the law in this area would be a matter of conscience for individual MPs rather than the government."
The Society for the Protection of Unborn Children said that by advising against reporting to the police, the RCOG risks undermining the public's trust in the medical profession and the legal system itself. 
Spokesperson for Right To Life UK, Catherine Robinson, raised concerns about illegal abortions occurring as a result of abuse, coercion or sex trafficking.
"This new guidance appears to create a presumption against disclosing information about illegal abortions to the police, and this could leave vulnerable women in these situations being denied the protection of the law," she said. 
The Fertility Network says access to IVF treatment is a "postcode lottery", making it "unethical".
It comes after the government was accused of watering down plans to prevent protests near clinics.
Cindy Mothogaathobogwe steers wildlife safari tourists on a Mokoro canoe through the Okavango Delta.
The conference is set up by two former police officers to "unapologetically talk about black women".
Pre-eclampsia affects millions of women worldwide yet is little understood, say scientists.
Copyright 2024 BBC. All rights reserved.  The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Beta Terms By using the Beta Site, you agree that such use is at your own risk and you know that the Beta Site may include known or unknown bugs or errors, that we have no obligation to make this Beta Site available with or without charge for any period of time, nor to make it available at all, and that nothing in these Beta Terms or your use of the Beta Site creates any employment relationship between you and us. The Beta Site is provided on an “as is” and “as available” basis and we make no warranty to you of any kind, express or implied.
In case of conflict between these Beta Terms and the BBC Terms of Use these Beta Terms shall prevail.
Christian campaigners have lost a legal challenge to an order banning prayers outside an abortion clinic.
Bournemouth, Christchurch and Poole (BCP) Council imposed a "safe zone" in 2022 around the clinic in Bournemouth.
Campaigners Livia Tossici-Bolt and Christian Concern argued the Public Spaces Protection Order was illegal.
However, two High Court judges said any interference with human rights was justified by the "legitimate aim" of protecting the clinic's clients.
From about 2017, the council received reports of "alarm and distress" caused by protesters outside the British Pregnancy Advisory Service clinic, the judges said.
In October 2022, the authority introduced an order prohibiting prayer, sprinkling holy water and other activities within a defined area around the centre in Ophir Road.
Ms Tossici-Bolt, from the group "40 Days For Life", and Christian Concern argued the order banned "peaceful and lawful behaviour".
However Lord Justice Warby and Mrs Justice Thornton said there was evidence the protests had caused harm.
They said: "It is, in our judgment, naïve and simplistic to suggest that activities of this kind in this context cannot be considered 'detrimental'... just because they are silent."
The judges added: "The protest activities described in the evidence, including silent prayer and the handing out of leaflets, were... outside a clinic to which women were resorting at particularly sensitive and difficult moments in their lives."
They said any interference with human rights was "justified by the legitimate aim of protecting the rights of women attending the clinic, their associates and the staff".
Christian Concern said it would appeal against the ruling.
A law to introduce buffer zones around abortion clinics in England and Wales was passed in May.
However, the government has said it is launching a consultation on guidance before the buffer zones can be enforced.
Follow BBC South on Facebook, X, or Instagram. Send your story ideas to south.newsonline@bbc.co.uk.
The new pilot will see people giving advice and solidarity to those undergoing treatment.
Showcasing the best images sent to us from around Dorset.
Lawangeen Abdulrahimzai killed 21-year-old Tom Roberts during a row in Bournemouth in 2022.
Bradford Abbas residents feel like a "forgotten community", a local Dorset councillor says.
Two councils are trying to create a "more efficient network" after facing problems in recent years.
Copyright 2024 BBC. All rights reserved.  The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Beta Terms By using the Beta Site, you agree that such use is at your own risk and you know that the Beta Site may include known or unknown bugs or errors, that we have no obligation to make this Beta Site available with or without charge for any period of time, nor to make it available at all, and that nothing in these Beta Terms or your use of the Beta Site creates any employment relationship between you and us. The Beta Site is provided on an “as is” and “as available” basis and we make no warranty to you of any kind, express or implied.
In case of conflict between these Beta Terms and the BBC Terms of Use these Beta Terms shall prevail.
A Salvadoran woman has been freed from prison more than seven years after she was convicted for having an abortion.
The 28-year-old, identified only as Lilian, was sentenced to 30 years in prison in 2015.
She gave birth to a girl in a public hospital in 2015, but the baby suffered health complications and died there three days later. 
There is a total ban on abortion in El Salvador, which has one of the world's strictest anti-abortion laws.
Prosecutors had accused Lilian of not taking care of the foetus during her pregnancy, and she was charged with negligence and aggravated murder.
Lilian, who has a 10-year-old daughter, has always maintained her innocence, and said she never intended to terminate her pregnancy.
"In the name of all my companions, I ask you to stop accusing and prosecuting other innocent women like me," she said in a news conference on Wednesday. 
"It was a very hard trauma to live through and I don't wish it on anyone."
Campaign groups who supported Lilian during her ordeal said she was freed in December, but the information has only now been made public.
They said the judge's decision to release Lilian was based on the fact that she was in a vulnerable situation in hospital when she lost her baby. 
El Salvador's total ban on abortions was introduced in 1998. It does not include exemptions in cases of rape or when the pregnancy poses a health risk for the mother.
Those found guilty of terminating their pregnancy face between two and eight years in prison. But in many cases the charge is changed to aggravated homicide, which carries a minimum sentence of 30 years.
Dozens of women are believed to have been wrongly imprisoned in El Salvador under suspicion of having had an abortion.
Following campaigns by rights groups, a number of women who were convicted have been released in recent years. But some still remain in prison and are serving decades-long sentences.
"We insist that we are asking for justice, so women have access to our sexual and reproductive rights," Mariana Moisa, from civil rights group Nos Faltan Las 17 (We Miss The 17), said at Wednesday's news conference.
President Nayib Bukele, who is widely expected to be re-elected next month, says he intends to improve conditions in hospitals to make childbirth safer.
But he has stressed that he has no intention of changing El Salvador's current abortion law.
Most of the country's population is either Roman Catholic or Evangelical, who say that life begins at conception and must be protected at all costs.
The Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists says women are being wrongly prosecuted.
The Fertility Network says access to IVF treatment is a "postcode lottery", making it "unethical".
It comes after the government was accused of watering down plans to prevent protests near clinics.
Cindy Mothogaathobogwe steers wildlife safari tourists on a Mokoro canoe through the Okavango Delta.
The conference is set up by two former police officers to "unapologetically talk about black women".
Copyright 2024 BBC. All rights reserved.  The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Beta Terms By using the Beta Site, you agree that such use is at your own risk and you know that the Beta Site may include known or unknown bugs or errors, that we have no obligation to make this Beta Site available with or without charge for any period of time, nor to make it available at all, and that nothing in these Beta Terms or your use of the Beta Site creates any employment relationship between you and us. The Beta Site is provided on an “as is” and “as available” basis and we make no warranty to you of any kind, express or implied.
In case of conflict between these Beta Terms and the BBC Terms of Use these Beta Terms shall prevail.
Home Secretary James Cleverly has said he is committed to ensuring women feel safe accessing an abortion, after the government was accused of watering down plans to prevent protests near clinics. 
A law to introduce buffer zones in England and Wales was passed last May.
But under draft Home Office guidance, activities including "silent prayer" would still be allowed. 
Campaigners are worried this will mean women are still at risk of being harassed outside clinics. 
Earlier this week, Labour MP Rupa Huq and Conservative Sir Bernard Jenkin wrote to Mr Cleverly calling for an "urgent review" of the draft guidance, which was published by the Home Office before Christmas and first reported by the i newspaper. 
In a response, seen by the BBC, Mr Cleverly said the guidance was drafted before he was made home secretary in November. 
He said he approved the launching of a public consultation "within days of coming into office" to make sure "there was no further delay to the process". 
"It is clearly unacceptable for anyone to be harassed or distressed simply for exercising their legal right to access abortion services," he wrote.
"I am committed to ensuring that women in England and Wales feel safe and protected whilst exercising their legal right to access abortion services."
He agreed to meet the MPs to discuss their concerns, adding: "All views will be carefully considered ahead of publishing the final version of the guidance."
The consultation on the guidance closes on Monday, with the government previously saying it wanted the measures to be implemented from the spring. 
In their letter, Ms Huq and Sir Bernard said they were concerned the draft guidance appeared to contradict what MPs voted for last year. 
Under section 9 of the Public Order Act, harassing, obstructing or causing distress to anyone attending an abortion clinic, within a 150 metre "safe access zone", was made a criminal offence carrying an unlimited fine.
Influencing someone's decision to access an abortion within the area is also an offence under the act. 
The measures had cross-party support, although they were opposed by some senior politicians including Minister for Women and Equalities Kemi Badenoch and Mr Cleverly's predecessor as Home Secretary, Suella Braverman.
The law does not include any exemptions for silent prayer, with MPs previously voting against a move to specifically exclude this from the scope of the legislation. 
However, the draft guidance says silent prayer "should not, on its own, be considered to be an offence under any circumstances".
It also states: "The government would expect 'influence' to require more than mere mention of abortion or the provision of information. As such, informing, discussing or offering help does not necessarily amount to 'influence'."
Ms Huq and Sir Bernard wrote: "The framing of the guidance seems to us to very clearly discount the experiences and reports of women accessing abortion care, and instruct them that they should not feel harassed, alarmed, distressed, or influenced by behaviour which… is having precisely that impact."
The MPs added that they had been told by councils, police and abortion care providers that the draft guidance "would do nothing to address the ongoing issue of anti-abortion harassment outside clinics". 
The British Pregnancy Advisory Service (BPAS), which is the leading provider of abortion advice and treatment in the UK, has said it is "shocked" by the government's attempt to "gut a law which a majority of MPs voted for". 
The anti-abortion group Christian Concern has previously commented on the government's draft guidance, saying it "acknowledges that buffer zones must be interpreted in line with human rights, including the right to manifest religious beliefs, the right to freedom of expression and the right to freedom of assembly and association".
The Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists says women are being wrongly prosecuted.
The Fertility Network says access to IVF treatment is a "postcode lottery", making it "unethical".
Cindy Mothogaathobogwe steers wildlife safari tourists on a Mokoro canoe through the Okavango Delta.
The conference is set up by two former police officers to "unapologetically talk about black women".
Pre-eclampsia affects millions of women worldwide yet is little understood, say scientists.
Copyright 2024 BBC. All rights reserved.  The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Beta Terms By using the Beta Site, you agree that such use is at your own risk and you know that the Beta Site may include known or unknown bugs or errors, that we have no obligation to make this Beta Site available with or without charge for any period of time, nor to make it available at all, and that nothing in these Beta Terms or your use of the Beta Site creates any employment relationship between you and us. The Beta Site is provided on an “as is” and “as available” basis and we make no warranty to you of any kind, express or implied.
In case of conflict between these Beta Terms and the BBC Terms of Use these Beta Terms shall prevail.
The police are investigating up to 50 potential breaches of laws providing safe access zones (SAZs) outside abortion clinics in Northern Ireland. 
The zones came into effect in September at eight clinics in Northern Ireland.
More incidents were reported at Causeway Hospital in Coleraine than any other site, police figures show.
That has prompted pro-choice campaigners and some local politicians to call for the zones to be extended by up to 250m (820ft).
In a statement, the Northern Trust said it would keep the width of the zone under review.
Warning: This article contains images which some readers may find distressing.
The legislation, which was passed at Stormont in 2022, makes it illegal for people to be "impeded, recorded, influenced or to be caused harassment, alarm or distress" within the eight areas.
It is a criminal offence, punishable by a fine of up to £500. 
The eight zones can cover between 100m (328ft) and 250m (820ft) from entrances or exits of designated premises.
The police have said preliminary figures show that since the zones came into effect on 29 September, there have been 20 incidents at the Northern Trust, resulting in 35 reports to police.
The Southern Trust had 11 incidents, while the Western Trust recorded two and the Belfast Trust recorded one.
No incidents have been recorded at the South Eastern Trust. 
The Police Service Northern Ireland (PSNI) said their "engage, explain and encourage" approach to policing the new laws had been successful.
Only two arrests have been made across Northern Ireland, both at Causeway Hospital, the police have said.
In November, a sign comparing Causeway Hospital to a Nazi concentration camp was seized near the Lodge Road Roundabout and three people were cautioned for public order offences by police.
Officers were alerted to the sign while attending a report of an alleged assault at a protest at the same time.
Lauren McAuley, a member of the pro-choice group, North Coast for Choice, described the posters, placards and imagery such as white crosses, as very distressing.
"I believe that the protesters who come here are not showing any remorse or sympathy for those who may need abortion services," Ms McAuley said. 
"I would defend anyone's right to protest but nobody needs to protest outside a hospital.
"Where the protesters stand is on a very busy roundabout and there are schools nearby."
"People feel harassed - you must have some understanding for what people are going through," Ms McAuley said.
"The 100-metre safe access zone in place is not enough. It can be extended and should be extended".
Gemma Brolly is the deputy leader of the anti-abortion party Aontú.
Ms Brolly said that her party did not participate in the protests, but that she did not support the widening of the zones.
"I can't see what difference 250 metres is going to make" she told BBC News NI. 
"I believe it can only escalate the situation further and I find it worrying and disappointing.
"We are watching the deletion of human rights where you can protest with one frame of mind but you cannot with another.
"Aontú as a party believe in respectful discourse and compassion and without that, nothing will change."
Two East Londonderry assembly members, the SDLP's Cara Hunter and Independent Claire Sugden, are supporting the extension of the zone.
Cara Hunter described the imagery being used at the protests as "shocking".
"I have spoken to a large number of constituents, both patients and hospital staff who have told about the level of distress they have experienced as a direct result of these protests.
"There is a right to protest but for many it's traumatising seeing some of the imagery here.
"I have asked the Northern Trust for an interim report to identify concerns from constituents."
A former justice minister and Independent MLA Claire Sugden said she also supported extending the zone. 
"I appreciate people have a right to an opinion and a right to protest but it is how they are expressing themselves that is causing the issue," Ms Sugden said. 
"The imagery is causing distress, not just to new mothers, but to people coming in and out of the hospital.
"People have a right to protest but not when others are being harmed by it."
In a statement to BBC News NI, the Northern Trust said at Causeway Hospital, the safe access zones were set at 100m following detailed preparation work.
"We will continue to keep this under review. While we recognise and acknowledge the legitimate right to peaceful protest, we also have a duty of care to both patients and staff," a spokesperson said. 
The Department for Health (DoH) said the safe access zones were monitored by staff and the PSNI.
The department said it would produce an annual report on all eight zones' effectiveness.
The anti-abortion groups, Precious Life and Abolish Abortion NI declined to comment, on any extension of the zone at Causeway Hospital. 
If you have been affected by any of the issues in this story, help and support is available via the BBC Action Line.
The most vulnerable groups were prioritised allowing the programme to be extended, the PHA says.
Workers left the picket lines to join protests in Belfast, Derry, Omagh and Enniskillen.
There are a range of views as more than 100,000 workers walk out on strike across Northern Ireland.
Schools, healthcare, and transport will all be affected by Thursday's industrial action.
Tens of thousands of public sector workers are due to walk out on Thursday in a dispute over pay.
Copyright 2024 BBC. All rights reserved.  The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Beta Terms By using the Beta Site, you agree that such use is at your own risk and you know that the Beta Site may include known or unknown bugs or errors, that we have no obligation to make this Beta Site available with or without charge for any period of time, nor to make it available at all, and that nothing in these Beta Terms or your use of the Beta Site creates any employment relationship between you and us. The Beta Site is provided on an “as is” and “as available” basis and we make no warranty to you of any kind, express or implied.
In case of conflict between these Beta Terms and the BBC Terms of Use these Beta Terms shall prevail.
On Friday, activists assembled in Washington for the March for Life, the nation's largest annual anti-abortion rally. 
The crowds were thinner than in past years, due in part to the cold temperatures and blowing snow that blanketed the capital overnight. 
But the campaigners in attendance this year also acknowledged the more concerning headwinds facing their movement, now in an election year: a general public broadly supportive of abortion rights, and a Republican party increasingly hesitant to join the fight. 
"It is kind of discouraging," said Olivia Murphy, an activist from Virginia. "Keeping the momentum up is definitely challenging." 
Four years earlier, Donald Trump had become the first and only sitting president to attend the March for Life. "Unborn children have never had a stronger defender in the White House," he said, pausing for applause. 
Mr Trump soon delivered on that promise, helping to reshape the Supreme Court into the body that would overturn Roe v Wade in June 2022, rescinding the nationwide right to abortion. But in the 18 months since that generational victory in Dobbs v Jackson Women's Health Organization, things have not gone quite as planned. 
Instead, the anti-abortion movement has been stymied by mounting public support for reproductive rights, and a series of bruising electoral defeats. These challenges will soon collide with the presidential election, where abortion is expected to be a leading issue. Mr Trump - the likely Republican nominee - has begun his own retreat, calling for "compromise" from activists. 
"We want people in office to truly be on our side. It's a tough situation," Ms Murphy said. "But we'll work with what we have." 
Last year, at the first march after Roe's demise, activists seemed triumphant.  
In the immediate aftermath of Dobbs, Republican-controlled states moved swiftly to outlaw the procedure. Today, 21 states have either total or partial abortion bans on the books, with some including harsh punishments for doctors and others who assist in accessing the procedure, including jail time, steep fines, and the loss of medical licences.  
But these anti-abortion policies incited fierce anger among broad sections of the American public, boosting support for reproductive rights. About 69% of voters think that abortion should be legal throughout the first three months of pregnancy - the period when most abortions occur - according to a recent Gallup poll. The survey marked a high watermark in support for pro-abortion activists. 
And in the first year without Roe, the average number of monthly abortions rose, according to data released in October from a research group backed by the Society of Family Planning (SFP).
Abortion bans have caused serious harm to families across the country, said David Cohen, a law professor at Drexel University and an abortion expert. "But the anti-abortion movement would sure hope that they were accomplishing something more than some disruption."
"They thought they were - to use their words - 'saving babies' and, on balance, they're not," he said, citing the SFP data.  
For Republican politicians, anti-abortion policies have proven politically toxic. 
Reproductive rights have won every abortion-related ballot measure over the last two years, even in Republican-controlled states. And abortion is thought to have handed Democrats a series of unexpected electoral wins, including the 2022 midterms, the Virginia state elections and the Wisconsin Supreme Court. 
"We're getting our butts kicked," said John Feehery, a Republican strategist. "The politics of this are not awesome for Republicans right now." 
These results have spawned a growing unease among Republican lawmakers who fear the blowback of a strict anti-abortion stance. 
In Congress, nearly three dozen House members who in 2021 signed a bill that recognised life at the moment of conception, have so far refused to sign on to nearly identical legislation crafted last year, a shift first reported by the New York Times. In the Senate, Republican Lindsey Graham's proposed anti-abortion legislation, a 20-week ban, was quickly shot down by members of his own party.  
And Mr Trump, the overwhelming favourite to win the Republican presidential nomination, has done a partial about-face on the issue, dismissing the idea of a national ban - the ultimate goal for the anti-abortion movement - and calling for compromise. 
"We're living in a time when there has to be a little bit of a concession one way or the other," he said in a televised Fox News Town Hall last week. "You have to win elections." 
At Friday's march, several campaigners said they were disappointed and angered by Mr Trump's words, and the apparent lack of "moral courage" on the issue of abortion in the Republican party. 
We are Catholic first, we are pro-life first, Joshua Feibelman told the BBC. "To the degree that politics aligns with those values, that's how we determine our vote."  
But just as many activists acknowledged that as the probable Republican nominee, Mr Trump would likely receive their vote anyway. These activists said they remained optimistic that if Mr Trump returned to the White House he would once again deliver for the anti-abortion cause. 
"The pro-life generation knows when November 2024 comes around there's only going to be one option," said Kristan Hawkins, president of the influential anti-abortion group Students for Life.
"The thing about President Trump is that he's a man that prides himself on making his deals and keeping his deals," Ms Hawkins said. "He made a deal with the pro-life movement in 2016 and I'm holding him to that deal."  
Donald Trump's second consecutive win raises new questions about Ms Haley's viability.
The former president asserts his strong hold on the Republican party and forges a clear path to the 2024 nomination.
The Pentagon says the strikes are a response to "escalatory attacks" by Iranian-sponsored militia.
A write-in effort helps the president avoid the embarrassment of losing to a longshot challenger.
Kaylin Gillis was shot in the neck in New York state when a car she was in pulled up at the wrong address.
Copyright 2024 BBC. All rights reserved.  The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Beta Terms By using the Beta Site, you agree that such use is at your own risk and you know that the Beta Site may include known or unknown bugs or errors, that we have no obligation to make this Beta Site available with or without charge for any period of time, nor to make it available at all, and that nothing in these Beta Terms or your use of the Beta Site creates any employment relationship between you and us. The Beta Site is provided on an “as is” and “as available” basis and we make no warranty to you of any kind, express or implied.
In case of conflict between these Beta Terms and the BBC Terms of Use these Beta Terms shall prevail.
A woman charged with carrying out an illegal abortion on herself has been found not guilty on the eve of her trial after the prosecution dropped the case due to "evidential difficulties".
Bethany Cox, 22, from Eaglescliffe in Stockton, was accused of child destruction and using misoprostol to procure her own miscarriage in 2020.
She pleaded not guilty to both charges at Teesside Crown Court in August 2023.
Her defence barrister said the case was an "extraordinary state of affairs".
Jolyon Perks, for the prosecution, told Teesside Crown Court the Crown Prosecution Service (CPS) was invited to review the case on 19 December and it was then that the decision was made not to proceed with the charges against Ms Cox.
Mr Perks told the court a full review was carried out, before the defence was told on 22 December the case would not proceed as the CPS was "not in possession of key evidence" and there was "no real prospect of a conviction".
Nicholas Lumley KC, for Ms Cox, said it was an "extraordinary state of affairs", adding that she gave birth in July 2020, at the end of the first Covid-19 lockdown, and "in the throes of grief" she was interviewed by police and was under investigation for three years before being charged and appearing in court in July 2023.
It is not known how or when the baby died.
Mr Lumley said it was "beyond regrettable" and Ms Cox had suffered so extensively, all the while "grieving for what took place". 
Judge Paul Watson, the recorder of Middlesbrough, said the court had "no choice" but to direct a not guilty verdict on both charges.
Ms Cox did not appear at Teesside Crown Court on Tuesday.
The two charges dated from the beginning of July 2020.
She was charged under Section 58 of the Offences Against the Person Act 1861, which makes it an offence for a woman to unlawfully procure her own abortion.
The first charge stated that on 6 July in Stockton she administered drugs to procure an abortion with the intent to destroy the life of a child capable of being born alive.
The second alleged that between 2 and 7 July she administered misoprostol with "intent to procure your own miscarriage".
A CPS spokesperson said: "Cases of this nature are carefully considered and a prosecution will only take place where the evidential standard has been met.
"Following a further review of this case, we have concluded that our legal test is no longer met."
Follow BBC Tees on Facebook, X (formerly Twitter), and Instagram. Send your story ideas to northeastandcumbria@bbc.co.uk.
The Great North Air Ambulance extended operational hours in 2023 and plans to provide more cover.
Bethany Cox, 22, is accused of child destruction and using drugs to cause a miscarriage.
Nick Copson said he had been to three gigs where there was no space on the accessible platforms.
GMB union members at the Tata site making Tetley Tea claim they are "struggling" financially.
Sue Wilkinson was rescued by a Great North Air Ambulance team who "brought her back to life".
Copyright 2024 BBC. All rights reserved.  The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Beta Terms By using the Beta Site, you agree that such use is at your own risk and you know that the Beta Site may include known or unknown bugs or errors, that we have no obligation to make this Beta Site available with or without charge for any period of time, nor to make it available at all, and that nothing in these Beta Terms or your use of the Beta Site creates any employment relationship between you and us. The Beta Site is provided on an “as is” and “as available” basis and we make no warranty to you of any kind, express or implied.
In case of conflict between these Beta Terms and the BBC Terms of Use these Beta Terms shall prevail.
A Russian man has been named and sanctioned for his role in Australia's worst data breach.
The personal information of 9.7m Australians was stolen from the country's largest health insurer, Medibank, in late 2022.
Sensitive documents, including abortion records, were then posted online.
The cyber sanctions - the first of their kind in Australia - include financial penalties and a travel ban for Aleksandr Ermakov.
Little has been made public about Mr Ermakov, but Australian intelligence authorities say he is part of the infamous Russian cyber-crime gang REvil - which has been linked to attacks across Europe, the US and UK. 
Announcing the measures on Tuesday, Home Affairs Minister Clare O'Neil described the Medibank hack as "the single most devastating cyber-attack we have experienced as a nation".
"Literally millions of people having personal data about themselves, their family members, taken from them and cruelly placed online for others to see," she said.
"These people are cowards and scumbags... we'll unveil who you are and we'll make sure you're accountable."
Authorities are still investigating the breach, Ms O'Neil added, and more people may face penalties.
It is the first time the government has used cyber sanctions legislation, passed in 2021, which applies financial punishments to people involved in significant online attacks.
Australia has faced a string of large data breaches in recent years, but few - if any - have rocked the country like the Medibank hack.
The cyber criminals had stolen login details which granted them access to all of Medibank's customer data - including the medical records of everyone from athletes and media figures to the Prime Minister Anthony Albanese.
They began posting the data online after the insurer - with the government's support - refused to pay a ransom.
They first released a set of files named "good-list" and "naughty-list" which contained, among other things, people's health claims data - including records of treatment for mental health or addiction - as well as names, addresses, birthdates, and government ID numbers.  Soon after they posted: "added one more file abortions.csv...", about some customer's end of pregnancy procedures. 
Medibank at the time apologised for what it called the "malicious weaponisation" of private information, with CEO David Koczkaro warning that the data release could stop people from seeking medical assistance.
Several class actions - which argue the firms should have better protected such sensitive data - have since been launched.
Regulator admits key security procedure on X account was suspended six months before it was hacked.
It hopes to help fill a shortfall in cyber security staff.
His legacy includes Australia's pandemic response, the Aukus security pact, and several controversies.
Scott Morrison was once considered a "miracle-worker", but his popularity plunged amid controversies.
Fashion giant removes an advert for school uniforms and says it is "deeply sorry" for offence caused.
Copyright 2024 BBC. All rights reserved.  The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Beta Terms By using the Beta Site, you agree that such use is at your own risk and you know that the Beta Site may include known or unknown bugs or errors, that we have no obligation to make this Beta Site available with or without charge for any period of time, nor to make it available at all, and that nothing in these Beta Terms or your use of the Beta Site creates any employment relationship between you and us. The Beta Site is provided on an “as is” and “as available” basis and we make no warranty to you of any kind, express or implied.
In case of conflict between these Beta Terms and the BBC Terms of Use these Beta Terms shall prevail.
